Most people don't realize that the way
that they're using AI is actually
killing their brand.
>> There's a massive difference [music]
between using AI as a tool and using AI
to generate everything you [music]
create.
>> SQ magazine reported in 2026 71%
of social media images were now
generated by AI.
>> The problem isn't AI replacing creators,
>> [music]
>> it's creators voluntarily replacing
themselves with AI.
>> We used to teach that your niche was
your advantage, but today authenticity
[music] is your advantage.
>> AI can be an absolutely amazing tool. It
can help you create more efficiently,
generate better outputs, and be more
[music] efficient in your day-to-day
life and work. And I don't know about
you, but recently my entire social media
feed has been nothing but use this AI
tool, try this AI tool, this AI tool is
going to solve world hunger and save
humanity. And while I think there are a
lot of great benefits to using AI, I
also think there are some really
dangerous traps that a lot of content
creators and small business owners are
falling into. [music]
And so, especially for those of you who
are trying to build a personal brand or
who are trying to grow a business and
are trying to use your own likeness to
do so, [music] I think today's episode
is going to be a real eye-opener for
you. On today's episode, I am bringing
back the OG host of this podcast, the
person who ran this podcast for like a
decade by themselves before I joined the
show in 2019 and who was my co-host
until about a year ago. Of course, the
person I'm referring to is none other
than Chalene Johnson, my mom. She's a
world-renowned expert in both marketing
and fitness and she's built a massive
[music] personal brand with over 700,000
subscribers
on YouTube, over 1 million followers on
Facebook, [music] almost 1 million
followers on Instagram, and hundreds of
thousands of followers on TikTok as
well. She has built an absolutely
massive personal brand for herself that
includes multiple world records and a
New York Times best-selling [music]
book. And she has done it over the
course of my entire lifetime, almost 30
years, throughout all of the changes of
the dot-com bubble, the rise of social
media, and now the acceleration of AI.
And so I think my mom offers a really
interesting insight into building a
personal brand and how you can use AI to
help accelerate your personal brand and
the growth of [music] it and also the
mistakes that you need to avoid that can
absolutely kill your personal brand
maybe before it even gets off the
ground.
>> [music]
>> And so one last thing before we get into
the actual interview, I want to ask you
to hit that subscribe button because
here every single week on the Build Your
Tribe podcast, I put out at least one
helpful video with tips, strategies, and
ideas to help you build your tribe
online. That is growing your following
on Instagram, growing your business on
YouTube, or whatever platform you
choose. So consider hitting that
subscribe button and without further
ado, here's our full conversation. Hello
Mom Shalene, for the first time ever,
welcome back to what was once your own
podcast, Build Your Tribe.
>> That is so weird, you're right. Hey,
thanks for having me back.
>> [laughter]
>> Of course, you you did about 800
episodes without me. You did a couple
hundred with me and now you're back, but
today we have a super important and
super relevant topic to talk about and
you know, everyone's so excited about AI
and using AI to automate everything and
generate everything and it's so cool and
so powerful,
but you have a really interesting
opinion on this. And so I want to start
by asking you, how is AI making creators
and business owners and brands more
forgettable?
>> I think it's made it so easy for people
to perfect and polish their content that
that is no longer the differentiator.
Like we used to be the advantage was the
knowledge that you had or how how strong
your hooks were, how great of a
communicator you were, how excellent you
were at writing, but all of that that
playing field has been leveled.
And so now like everything looks the
same. I mean, we're talking on podcasts
right now. We've got these podcast mics
in front of us and
you know, there there are just a million
Instagram videos, YouTube shorts, etc.
with just two podcasters and a mic in
front of them, and it starts to feel
like white noise when everyone has the
same tools, and everyone's creating the
same content.
>> Yeah. So, do you think that we're
heading towards like a trust recession,
or people are just not going to be
genuinely, you know, believing each
other anymore online?
>> This is critical for Gen Xers and older
millennials because, I'm sorry if you're
offended, you are falling for AI. You're
You don't recognize My generation does
not easily recognize AI when they see
it. Now, your generation does. Like, you
guys pick it up in 2 seconds, but people
in my,
you know, era, we We just fall for it
much easier.
And I think because of that, we also
think like, "Oh, I I better learn how to
use this, or I'm going to get left
behind by the younger generations." And
so,
we're using it because we think other
people don't notice it.
And when that happens, other people who
do do know something is AI, there's a a
distrust.
And so, every time you're going online,
you're watching videos, and you're
thinking to yourself, "Okay, this is
fascinating, but I don't want to get
scammed. Is this AI? I you know, should
I trust this?" So, our natural distrust
is is already heightened, and we just
feel like everyone is trying to scam us.
And it
What has happened is we're just We don't
trust influencers. We don't trust
experts. We don't trust people wearing
white lab coats. We don't trust our
politicians. We're just turning away
from social media when it comes to
getting valuable source information
because so much of it out there is is
fake.
>> Mhm. Now, a minute ago you said that
information is no longer enough, or
like, you know, people have said, "We're
no longer in the information economy."
Or educational content is dead. So, why
do you feel that is?
>> Well, think about it. I used to have to
I had the advantage when I had a lived
experience and nobody else had or could
understand. But now somebody could type
in, "Hey, what could I learn from having
done 30 years of marketing and
infomercials that could help business
owners?" And And suddenly you have I
mean not exactly, but you have at least
enough information you could boil down
into creating an Instagram reel. So So
like information is at everybody's
fingertips. The fact that I can
I can
uh summarize hundreds of hours worth of
research by using an AI tool in a matter
of minutes, that's insane. Where an
expert in the past that was their
advantage. So today like knowledge is no
longer the thing that differentiates you
from any other creator. And And And so
the things that I think older creators,
and when I say older I mean older
millennials, Gen X, and and even
boomers, they have to double down on
their life experiences
and realize that it's like who you are
is the advantage.
>> Yeah. Can you talk more about like what
actually matters now? Because like okay,
we're on the same page, you know,
there's there's AI tools that make
information less of the premium, but
then like wouldn't the premium wouldn't
the way that I stand out be making my
stuff look super like polished and
professional and there's all these AI
tools that can help me look more
polished and professional. So
is that the differentiator? Is that what
actually matters or what would you say?
>> I mean I'm sure you would agree Brooke
and I'm curious what your opinion is,
but when AI tools first became popular
uh you know, like two or three years
ago,
it did feel like such an advantage. I'm
like, "Oh my god, I'm the worst
proofreader in the world. I don't know
how to create graphics. Holy cow, I've
got all these things at my fingertips."
And my team doesn't mean my team better,
it made me better. But now everyone has
those tools and now because we're all
leery of being scammed or leery that the
words that we're reading were written by
a machine and not by a person,
I think
we're seeing because
AI tools have hit mainstream. Like my
father
just wrote a book using ChatGPT and
created the cover and took it to Kinko's
to have it create You know what I mean?
Like everyone is using it now.
Um
which means nothing stands out. No one
stands out who's creating amazingly
perfect, polished content. I think what
stands out and what's going to continue
to stand out is content that it's
we know it was created by the creator.
Do you know what I mean? And it's
subtle. It's subtle, but I think that's
going to be the differentiator because
we are all desperate
for real. We just We don't want things
that are fake.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I know. I think it's like
basic supply demand economics. Um you
know, if there's suddenly a massive
supply of super professional, polished,
pretty-looking content because AI tools
make it easier than ever before before
to create that kind of content, then
that content is by definition less
valuable. It's less premium. It's less
exclusive. And to your point that you've
said a few times, people are just less
trusting of it. People are less likely
to want to follow an AI avatar. They're
less likely to really trust someone uh
who is ultimately just a robot or using
a robot to write all of their content.
>> I want to share with you an example. So,
you know, we are obviously I have a
YouTube channel, The Shelene Show, and
we're always trying to elevate our
content. We've hired graphic artists to
help us really create much better
thumbnails, right? And so,
you know, that process has been
happening.
And lately we've been noticing I
personally have been noticing like
I just don't I don't relate to these
thumbnails. Like this doesn't even look
like me.
And
I I always try to use my own impression
to shape how I'm creating content. So
even though that's kind of the trend
right now is these AI-generated
thumbnails, I'm like, I don't like them.
So I wonder I wonder if my audience
doesn't like them, too. And so we've
been doing testing recently, and I'm
going to put up some of those tests up
on the screen. I'll share those with
you, Brock.
So these are three thumbnails recently,
and you can see the two that we had
professionally designed that took hours,
cost a lot more money to create. And
then you can see the test that actually
won. The winning thumbnail was just an
untouched
screenshots, low resolution from the
video recording that I did. And that's
the one that performed best.
We've also found that
you know, even though I'm using AI tools
to help
kind of test the waters. Like is this a
good title? Is this a good hook? Is this
a good script? And it'll give me scores,
and it'll tell me things like, "Okay,
this is a 91." And And then I'll say,
"You know, but this is what I would be
searching for." And it'll score it
lower. And but then when I test them,
my intuition is usually better than AI,
and here's why.
Because the older and more experienced
you are, you have an advantage.
AI is just taking everything that's out
there and disseminating it to like the
most popular and common responses. So
it's telling me the most common
responses, but I'm I'm not trying to
reach someone who's looking for the most
common response. I'm looking for someone
who's trying to reach me.
And so I think we have to
really pay attention to our intuition.
And sometimes AI is right, but I think
more often than not, if you have a lived
experience,
you know what it is your audience wants.
You know what annoys them. You know what
they they cringe. You know what they
find cheesy. You know what they find
boring. So, sometimes we have to like
ignore AI and just go with our own lived
experience.
>> Yeah, yeah, no for sure. And at the same
time, I still think it can still be a,
you know, super helpful tool. You and I
are always talking about the latest ways
we're using it. And so, I'm curious, how
are you personally using AI today? And
where do you see it like most effective
in your day-to-day life, in the business
operations, and all that?
>> I would love to break that down for you,
and I think I think we should. We'll get
to that. Um, cuz I want to share with
you like the ways I I do think it helps
my business, how I use it, and then the
rules that I currently have in place
for myself and my team. Like these are
hard and fast rules because I'm a
personal brand, and I think probably
most people are watching, you are a
personal brand. And so, how things go
out to the world, you need to make the
final call on what is okay and what
isn't okay. So, hopefully we can get to
that, but I think the bigger thing to
talk about first is is kind of the trap
that people don't realize that AI can be
an amazing thing,
and we're all excited about it, but also
you have to recognize that as fast as AI
is changing and developing, so too are
the consumers' perception
around AI. And it's not positive right
now. I mean, not Some of it is very
positive, but a lot of it is shifting.
>> Yeah, yeah, there are some some crazy
stats that I know we've
looked up and and found about, you know,
who Tweet studies showed that 62% of
consumers distrust brands that are using
AI. There's an SQ magazine report from
2026, so this year, that 71%
of all images on social media are now
generated by AI. And this is very
counter to what Forbes recently
reported, which is that consumers are
actively growing hostile towards AI. Not
just like, "Oh, we don't like it, or we
don't want to see it, we distrust it,
but like actively growing hostile
towards it. And so, I think you're
absolutely right that especially in the
world of personal branding, it can be a
really slippery slope.
>> That word hostile is important, too,
because that hostility is starting with
younger generation. And so, people
creators who are my age are thinking,
well, sure, Gen Z hates AI, but, you
know, they've got to get with the times.
But, those
those opinions trickle up. And, you
know, like you and your sister, you
influence the way I see the world. And
when, you know, you guys are saying
like, ah, you know, not everybody is
happy about it because it is replacing
artists. It is replacing, you know, that
authentic
thing that we we want from other people.
We've got to pay attention to that. And
I think it's very easy to to slip
without noticing. Like to go, oh, this
is easier. I Okay, so point I had a a
friend of mine who's an entrepreneur who
said, I just discovered that I can use
this AI tool where it takes my face, my
voice, and it takes one ad that I've
recorded, and it changes it into like 30
different variations, all using AI. And
she sent me a couple of them, and I'm
like, please don't use this. This will
just ruin your brand. Like, and she's
like, but it'll save me so much time.
I'm like,
what might save you time is is looking
at ways that tools and AI tools that
make you smarter or that make you more
efficient, but not things that make you
less
trustworthy. And I think when we're
creating fake images, and we we never
said those words, we were never standing
in that room, we were never, you know,
AI now can be used to fake lifestyles,
intelligence, your voice, your body,
your hair, all of these things, then the
one thing that really helps us to
differentiate
is
uh who we are, our unique personalities.
Like that is the asset that's most
valuable. And we're we're getting rid of
that when we're using AI to generate
images, to generate videos, to generate
our own voices.
>> Okay, so what's the difference between
using AI to work smarter and more
efficiently versus using it to replace
you or just look more polished?
>> Oh, by the way, before I answer that
question, Brock, I want to say um to
anyone who's watching who might be, you
know, uh of a certain age, do me a
solid. I haven't been back on Build Your
Tribe in so long cuz I really need this
video to like pop off. So, come on, do
your girl a solid and make sure you hit
that like button and subscribe to Build
Your Tribe so that, you know, Brock's
like, "Mom, I can have you back again."
Okay, now I'll answer your question.
Well, one of the things, you know, you
and I both agree is that you you don't
Sometimes you're not feeling creative or
sometimes your brain just gets stuck and
you you're not good at coming up with,
for example, the hook. Or, you know, how
to organize things. Like, so for
example, in preparation for this
interview today, I've got like all these
thoughts and I don't want to just vomit
them on you. I want them to I want to be
organized in my thoughts. And so, I'll
use AI, use my own thoughts, my own
opinions, put it into AI and say, "Help
unscramble these so that I can share
them in an a way that makes it easier
for people to digest." That's to me,
that's using AI smarter. That's helping
it to be more polished without change I
haven't developed This is my own
opinion. This isn't something I asked AI
to develop for me. And I think that's
one example of how you can use AI to
create better content, but not to create
your personality, not to create a better
image, not to create a a different
version of my lifestyle or what I look
like or my features.
>> Yeah, that's a great example. And
speaking of examples, that's one thing
that I personally like to use AI for to
work smarter and more efficiently is if
I need like a long list of examples cuz
people love seeing different use cases
and examples for, let's say, how they
could use a specific hook on one of
their Reels. I might come up with three
or four, then I'm like, uh "Huh, you
know, I'm I'm struggling to come up with
a couple more. I really want to come up
with one for the fitness niche." And so,
I might give it my examples, which come
from my brain and my creativity, and ask
it to come up with a couple more just to
help extrapolate my ideas, but I'm not
having it generate the original idea
itself.
>> Yeah, and I don't know about you, but I
can tell when I'm watching a creator
there something just feels off. It
doesn't necessarily have to be an
AI-generated video. There's something
about the script, something about
there's just a vibe. There's this energy
where I'm like, I I just don't I just
don't know that those are their words. I
don't believe this.
>> Yeah.
>> And it's not glaring. It's just this
feeling. It's like, okay, I just have
this certain level of distrust.
>> Yeah. Yeah, absolutely. And I mean, to
kind of zoom all the way out for a
second, even as we're having this
conversation today, like you mentioned,
you kind of brain dumped and gave all of
your ideas and everything that you
wanted to talk about to AI for it to
come up with kind of an outline or a
flow for our conversation, and then we
are now having a conversation with just
the general guidelines being directed by
what AI was able to come up with. So,
we're not following a script. I'm not
asking questions that were written by
AI, but we're loosely following the
structure that it helped create. But all
this again came from your brain, and
then it was just used as kind of like
the organizational tool. So, I'm
curious, where else are you using it and
where have you kind of drawn the line
when it comes to AI in your personal
brand?
>> And this may change, right? At the when
AI first came out, I was so excited and
was ready to completely outsource my
weekly newsletter.
And we we started seeing diminished
returns. We started seeing people like I
literally got a message from a friend of
mine who said, "Did you write this?" And
at that particular newsletter, I had not
read.
And that's when I realized like, okay,
this is I'm sending this out to the
world and I'm trusting AI. This is a
couple years ago. Um this could be very
dangerous. And it's it doesn't feel
right to me even though it saved saved
me a ton of time. So now my personal
stance is
it can be enhanced by AI, but the final
read the final version needs to be me. I
think typos are the new
gold mine. Like a typo I got a message
the other day from somebody who read my
newsletter and they said, "It is so
refreshing to know this wasn't written
by AI because I see your typos."
>> Yeah.
>> finally my typos are are paying off. So
for me it's anything that just it just
you can tell it's cheesy. It's so
obviously AI the M dashes, the way it
writes things it's like it AI tries too
hard. And it's just not good at being
who we are and knowing what things are
cringe
when it comes to my image. There's we
have an absolute zero tolerance now for
AI.
Another example is I had a
thumbnail editor who is creating images
for us and I said, you know, I don't
want any AI edited images. Any AI
generated images is what I said. And I
had someone on my team who said,
"Chalene, I I don't think this is you."
and they sent me a screenshot of the
thumbnail. They said, "I think this is
AI generated." and I said, "No, that's
that's me. I I know I took that's the
photo I took and uploaded."
But what had happened is the editor had
shifted my eyes to look off or whatever
you know, to capture the emotion that
they needed. I didn't notice it.
But somebody else who's younger and who
pays like you know, like really pays
attention to those things, it just
looked off to them. It's me and I
couldn't even tell that it had been AI
generated. So I think there are people
who pick up on those subtle teeny tiny
little differences and you think, "Oh my
gosh, this looks like a photo shoot of
me.
But in our heads I think we've been
confused by our own filters and AI
images and you think you're fooling the
world, but they can tell.
And it hurts your brand. I mean, there's
there's a lot of
kind of like
lower level celebrities and people who
are like on reality TV and and and a lot
of these creators are my age.
And they love and they're not doing I I
I have altered my image using plastic
surgery. So,
you know, I'm the first to be authentic
about that and and I I understand that
sometimes people are uncomfortable with
their appearance and they don't want to
get Botox. They don't want to go under
the knife. That's fine. But then own up
to like what you look like because
altering your image with a filter is
it's it's damaging your it's damaging
your trust. It's damaging your
authenticity. You're much better off
just saying like, "Okay, I'm not looking
my best." And don't change the shape of
your nose, the shape of your eyes, the
shape of your belly, the shape of your
body. Eventually you're going to have to
go out in public and people see you and
then if you're willing to shift and
change all of those things, what else
are you covering up? I just think it
really diminishes trust.
>> As someone who cooks about 95% of their
meals at home and no, that's not an
exaggeration, usually the only meal that
Tay and I eat out each week is our sushi
Saturday. What we eat, what we prepare,
it matters a lot to us. And that's why
I'm so excited to introduce you to our
newest sponsor, HelloFresh. HelloFresh
allows you to choose between more than
100 recipes every single week including
cuisines from all around the world and
bigger portions that satisfy everyone.
Over 35 of those weekly recipes are high
protein recipes which fires me up and it
allows me to feel great because I know
that I'm eating wholesome ingredients
like sustainably sourced seafood and
100% antibiotic and hormone-free
chicken. And of course, most important
of all is how it tastes and let me tell
you it actually tastes really good. This
helps me be a better business owner
because I'm able to eat meals that taste
good and help me feel satisfied. I don't
have to spend as much time thinking or
prepping each meal and I can make sure
that I'm hitting my protein goals in the
process. Go to hellofresh.com/byt10fm
to get 10 free meals plus a freeze
willing knife, which is a $144.99
value on your third box. This offer is
only valid while supplies last. Free
meals applied at discount on your first
box for new subscribers only and varies
by plan.
>> Yeah, so is that in your opinion the
difference between an AI optimized
business owner versus a trust optimized
business owner?
>> The difference between an AI optimized
and a trust optimized is that someone
who's focusing on AI optimization wants
perfection.
I think it's okay to use AI to optimize
your productivity. I don't think it
should be used to optimize your
personality and it certainly should
never be used to optimize authenticity.
You can't optimize authenticity. You
just you have to be honest and the way
you do that is by being imperfect, by
allowing people to see your human side.
That's what we're looking for. Like
people are so afraid of being scammed
every time they open up their app. And
you see a like you you know, you've seen
the penguin that does a backflip and
you're like, wait. Wait a second. Is
this AI? You know, we're watching things
because we don't want to be scammed.
And I think it's really important for
people to realize you signal trust when
there's imperfection.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, absolutely and I think that the
scary thing is that a year from now it
might be impossible even for the most
keen eye, even for the you know,
17-year-old who was raised in the world
where AI has always been around, it
might be at the point where even they
can't distinguish and can't recognize.
Um, and so again, we're asking this
question of who can I trust?
>> Yeah,
how close do you think we are to getting
to a place where like almost no one can
tell?
>> I I think a year. I think we're a year,
maybe even less, away where even the the
farthest thing, you know, if you
consider the entire spectrum, the
farthest end of the spectrum is like
video. And video with audio, too, like
talking videos. That's the farthest end
of the spectrum, and I think we're a
year or less away from pretty much
anyone being able to not tell. Because
we're already at the stage where AI
video,
you know, not to be agist or to say
anything about your generation, but
where I'm getting videos sent to me on
Instagram from people who are of your
age, who are saying like, "Oh my gosh,
check this out. I love this person's
content." And I'm having to tell them,
"That's an AI avatar. That's not a real
human being." And to me, it's a
glaringly obvious.
Um but I I legitimately think that
within the next 12 months, it might be
indistinguishable.
>> I think it's in the next 6 months. I
think we're already at a tipping point
where 90
5% of the population has no idea. I'm
going to share
>> Yeah.
>> this video, Brock. Um I can't tell you
how many women in my community have told
me I need to have this woman featured at
my next Camp Be More Live event.
And I mean, I I was sent this by my own
girlfriends.
And this is not a real person. This is
AI This is a And in my opinion, this is
a really bad one. Now, check out the
comments, Brock. Look at these comments.
Yeah, all people are like, "Oh my god,
amazing girl, you're
Give me your secret." So, now she's
becoming a paid influencer. Not she.
This is just you know, it's probably
some dude sitting in his mom's basement
who's invented this character. He's
getting paid the brand deals. He's
taking money away from creators. And
more importantly, he's robbing everyone
who's out there creating real content of
the opportunity to connect with real
customers. And And he's making everybody
We're all becoming very distrustful, and
it's going to get better and better.
So, I think the one way to double down
on that,
especially and I can speak to our Gen
Xers and, you know, millennials old
older and even the boomers. And I I can
tell you guys, I know that you feel like
you're falling behind when it comes to
the AI.
Go ahead and learn as much as you want
about how you can improve your
productivity and efficiency,
but don't spend any time trying to
figure out how to create videos of
yourself, how to duplicate your voice,
how to create a clone of yourself. I I
think you need to double down on your
life experiences and that is what
differentiates you. That's what people
are looking for and that's how you get
ahead in 2026, 2027 as a creator.
>> Yeah. Now, there's this idea within
personal branding of like your core
message, but I know that you have a
principle about like the anti-message.
So, what the heck is that and can you
tell me more about it?
>> Yeah, you know, I think a core message
really mattered when people, you know,
when we didn't have any AI. People
didn't know what their core message is.
Now, you can say, "Hey, I'm in I I'm a
business coach and these people are the
ones who I aspire to be like. Help me
replicate their core message." It's just
so easy. Like no one has a true opinion
anymore. And I think the creators who
are going to stand out in the future are
those who double down on an
anti-message. It requires you to have
thick skin. It requires knowing that you
are not going to be everybody's cup of
tea and it requires you doubling down on
the things that make your opinion
different. And I'll give you a specific
example. So, Brooke, let's say um let's
say we're talking to people who are
coach others on Instagram.
Right? So, most of those people, and
there's lots of people who coach on
Instagram, have a lot of the same core
messaging as you, right? Like how to use
the tools, a strong hook, um a call to
action. But, what if you had a a message
that was very different from all of
theirs, which might have been might be
something like an anti-message, which
would be
I don't believe that creators should be
editing out any of their pauses or
mess-ups in their videos. That would be
like an anti-message, cuz it goes
against what most people in your
industry
say, and that can make you stand out.
For example, with me, um you know, I
speak to women who are in midlife and in
menopause. And a lot of women in that
space we we share a lot of the same core
messaging.
But, where I have an anti-message is I I
just don't believe we need to get as
caught up in all the wearable,
you know, health detectors, like
knowing exactly your step count and your
HRT and your HRV and your exact macros
and, you know, how many hours of sleep
you had and how many your telomeres and
like all of these numbers that we didn't
have 15 years ago, and now I I
personally believe
they aren't as important as we're making
them out to be. Another example might be
maybe you are a um a health and fitness
coach, but you don't believe that women
ever need to lift weights for their
upper body.
That they can have insane results and
age powerfully just by doing 3 days of
lower body training. So, that's an
anti-message. It's like finding them one
message that differentiates you, and
that is not something you can get from
AI. Like, you've got to be bold in your
convictions.
>> That makes sense. So, it's it's kind of
like the, you know, the unpopular
opinion, the hot take, the controversial
thing, the thing that you believe that's
kind of counter to what the big names in
your industry might be saying or
teaching about. I can think of so many
others, but how can someone identify
what their anti-message might be?
>> Yeah. I think you'd have to start by
going through your core message, and
then thinking about other people in your
space with the similar core message, and
then really being honest with yourself
and saying, "If
I wasn't worried about anyone else's
opinion,
what is the one
belief that I have that doesn't match up
with everybody else's, but I know for my
own lived experience, I believe it to be
true. And I also know that it's not
going to work for everybody, but there's
going to be some people out there who
this is going to work for them. Or you
know, this is this going to help them,
they're going to believe it. So it it's
being honest with yourself
and having the confidence
to know
that anti-belief is going to turn some
people off from you,
but it's going to make it easier for
those people who are like looking for
you to find you.
>> Yeah, that makes sense. So as we move
towards the future, 2027, 2028, this
crazy world that we're going to live in
where who knows what is AI generated and
what is real, what is the most valuable
skill for the future for creators and
small business owners?
>> You know, every time I think about this
particular answer, I think
for now. And then like right now I think
the one skill would be being able to go
live and speak extemporaneously.
But I also go for now. Be you know,
until they can figure that out, too. But
for now, I think that is the win.
And who's to say how our opinions are
going to be shaped in the next 2 years
about AI, but the one thing I think
is part of human nature is
we want connection.
And we want real.
And
as long as we can hold on to that and
the people who
really lead with who they are
authentically, it just comes through.
And and it it makes people feel safe.
Like there's there's a piece of this
whole AI thing as much you know, you and
I both talk about how much we love it
and all the tools, etc., but there's
there's equally things about it that
scare the hell out of me.
And I think, well, But, know, oh well,
the robots are going to kill us anyways.
You know what I mean? But,
>> Yeah.
>> Um so, it's just it's kind of trying to
find that healthy balance and realizing
we aren't doomed and we need to pay
attention.
>> Yeah.
Yeah. I also think, um you know, there's
going to be a lot of creators and
business owners taking a an outward and
public stance or at least making their
use of AI known in the next few years.
Whereas, you know, in 2023 and 2024, you
could kind of get away with using an
AI-generated image and maybe some people
wouldn't know. Maybe even in 2025, you
could use an AI video and most people
might not catch it and you think, "Hey,
I'm just going to slide this under the
radar." And in the near future, you're
going to be at the point where maybe no
one can catch it. But, because no one
can catch it, we're all going to be
like, "Hmm, who can I trust?" Like,
yeah, this video looks real, but is it
real? And so, I think there's going to
be a lot more business owners and
creators and this might even be a
recommendation that I give to business
owners and creators is have a very
public stance about your current where
you draw the line with AI. I've myself
personally quite a few times said that I
will never use AI, at least currently.
This could change. Never use it to
replicate my face on video or my voice
on video.
>> Yeah.
>> going to use it to clone myself. That's
where I draw the line. I might use it to
improve an image like maybe clean up my
skin a little bit, but I'm not going to
use it to completely regenerate a new
Brock. And so, I think that in the near
future, it's going to be important for
business owners and creators to kind of
have a stance and make that stance known
so that their followers can trust them.
It's the same thing of like like you
with your you're like, "Hey, I had a
facelift." Right? Your audience doesn't
trust you less because you had a
facelift lift, they appreciate you more
and they trust you more because you
honestly said that. You weren't like one
of these uh influencers who just like
stopped posting for 3 months and then
they came back looking totally different
and like obviously you spent 3 months
getting a facelift.
>> [laughter]
>> Um I think that that that honesty about
where you stand and how you are using
these tools is going to be really
important.
>> Yeah. I I think it's the wild, wild west
and we can't be afraid of it and the
more we are just paying attention to our
own intuition, that's going to be our
best North Star.
>> Okay, so with all this being said, how
do creators know what to automate versus
what to protect and keep for just
themselves?
>> I'm with you, Brock. I have had on my
to-do list from my team this prompt that
they wanted me to read so that they
could use my voice to create stuff when
I'm not available and I just kept
putting it off and putting it off. I'm
like, I don't know why this doesn't feel
right. I know that anyone could clone my
voice. My you know, we're recording our
voices right now. I just don't want to I
don't want to give anyone approval to
clone my voice or my image or my my
likeness. I think that's the like it's
like selling a piece of your soul. So
for me that's I'm going to continue to
protect my identity even though it's
being stolen every day. You know, and
maybe we'll do a follow-up episode about
that, but like you know, people steal my
my my videos and they put different
words on them and so anything I can do
to protect my image, I'm going to do
that. I'm not going to make it easier
for them to do that. When it comes to
automating
any
silly automate like administrative task,
anything that took me a ton of time to
do before, I'm automating it. Like get
it off my plate. I I wanted to have more
time and freedom to daydream, to be
creative and and to for the art of
creation.
>> And so if education or information is no
longer premium, it's no longer as
valuable as it once was. If pretty,
polished, perfected content is no longer
as valuable as it was even just a few
minutes ago or
even if polished, perfect content even
isn't as perfect as it was even just a
few years ago, what will be the most
valuable thing that creators and small
business owners have in the future?
>> Things that just signal to people, okay,
this is real.
And
we're desperate to find those things. I
think people are going to be looking for
little things that tell us, okay, I know
like the typo, like the food stuck in
your teeth, like the mispronunciation of
a word.
>> Like the mistake that I made when I was
asking that question.
>> Exactly. Yeah, but like that's the stuff
that people are going to look, okay,
this this is a real human.
It's the bloopers, you know? And and I
think I think I think it's going to make
people stand out because people are so
afraid to be real that it it really does
differentiate you.
>> [music]
>> Your
your authenticity
is what differentiates you.
>> [music]
[music]